Now quite a lot of 3D modeling is about looking at a complex shape and trying to figure out what primitive
object what primitive shape we can build from to make that.
So let's take a look at the legs here.
One might think well it's a rectangle.
And that's true.
We could use a cube here and extrude off of that.
But if you look at here this piece here is really more cylindrical and it's kind of harder to extrude
a curved edge off of a cube than it is to extrude a straight edge off of the cylinder.
So let's try a cylinder here and see what we can do.
So to begin with I'll go over to the Create tab and click on cylinder and I'm going to click here and
drag this up so I can see the input settings for this new cylinder.
Let's change the number of sides from 32 to 12 and let's change the cap.
Fill from an Injun to a triangle fan.
OK.
Now what let's try is let's rotate this in which axis.
Well I would say we should rotate it around the y axis here.
So what we could do is we could type in our Y and then type in 9 0 and enter and that will rotate the
object around the y axis 90 degrees.
All right so now that scale it down a bit and try and put it in place I'll press g and Z and bring it
up and I can also come down here to the move manipulator click and drag over to look at this from the
front view I'll press the one key and then I'll press the five key to look at it in orthographic view
and what I'd like to do is get this positioned.
So it's probably a little bit smaller here.
Something like this and also we need to leave room for that Center's cylindrical piece right here.
So I think that's probably enough room right there.
Maybe I'll make it a little bit bigger and bring it down some.
And then if we tumble around here I can select these faces I'll press control tab and then I'll hit
the three key to go to face mode.
And now if I hit the A key to de-select I can select these faces fairly easily by pressing the C key
to turn on the circle select tool and I can scroll the mouse wheel to make it bigger or smaller than
I can just click and select these faces.
Now I go back to the front view by pressing the one key on the numpad and just drag these out until
it lines up with that hip block right up there.
I'll tab out of edit mode and there we are.
We've got the beginnings of our leg but we need to extrude down for the leg and the foot.
I want to press the five key to go back to perspective view.
And also it looks like the back of the leg is flat.
So how do we do that.
Well I'll tell you what we can do is tab into edit mode and select these faces here let's say let's
select four of the faces and one trick to flattening these up is using the scale tool.
So don't go to this scale manipulator.
And if I click and drag in the Y-axis you can see I can bulge it out but I can also flatten it up like
that.
If I press the three key on the keyboard and then the five key you can see I'm beginning to flatten
these up and I'm right about there.
That looks pretty good.
Now I can move these back to the back of the leg and maybe even move them up so they snug right up against
that block there.
OK.
Now if we take a look at this we can see what we need to extrude down to get the leg.
Probably these two faces right here.
So I'll select these go back to the side view the three key and let's extrude these down.
So hit the e key and click and then I'm just going to drag straight down with the Z axis and there we
go.
I'm going to press the five key to go to perspective view.
And that's about right.
I think maybe a little tall but I think that's OK.
Now once again these faces down here are need to be flattened.
So I'll go to the side view with the three key and the number pad five key to go to orthographic view.
And now once again you go to the scale tool and this time we scale on the Z-axis and that'll flatten
those up and there we go.
Now we've got that rounded piece up front and the flat straight piece of the leg.
Now the foot here is just an extrusion.
We just need a face defined here to extrude out and to do that we can just press control r and insert
an edge loop and drag it down to about I don't know felt right there and now we go back to face mode
with control tab select that face hit the key and pull straight out.
And there we go.
Now we've got the basis of our leg.
I'll hit the five key to go back to perspective view.
And I think before we go any further we should probably go ahead and insert some loops and add a subdivision
surface modifier to it.
So I'll go ahead and add a modifier subdivision surface and of course it looks awful.
Click the view arrow here to turn the view up to to go to the tools tab and click smooth shading.
I'll hit the tab key so we can see the cage around the smooth object.
I'll insert a couple of edge loops vertically with control r and I'll scroll the mouse wheel and click
and click again.
And now I can scale these out to the edges.
And we go I can tighten up the edge down here at the toe by pressing control r and inserting an edge
loop right up here.
I can get a tighter edge around the ankle by inserting an edge loop right in here let's say.
And of course another one right in here.
And I can tighten up this heel by inserting a horizontal edge loop down here and dragging it down.
Like that.
And it looks like we're gonna need one up here there's kind of a bulge out here.
We need to tighten that edge up so I'll press control our and bring that up in to hear that.
Now that we have this one leg let's duplicated or mirror it over to the other side to mirror an object
we need to move the origin or the pivot point of the object into the center of the grid so that when
we mirror it over it mirrors around that center point.
So if we were to mirror this leg now it would simply mirror around the point here.
We need to move this down to the center of the grid or where the 3D cursor is already.
If your 3D cursor is somewhere else we need to move it into the center of the grid so I'll just press
shift s and choose cursor to center and that will move it to the center of the grid.
Now to move this origin to there we need to come over here to the tools tab and click Set origin or
to 3D cursor.
Now when we add a mirror modifier it will mirror around that point.
So let's come over here to add modifiers.
Click on mirror.
Now you can see it's a mirrored around the x axis but going down.
And why would that be.
Well the reason why is because our rotation has a value in the y axis.
We need to zero out that rotation before we can measure it over to the other side.
So here let me remove the mirror modifier and we need to apply the transformations we need to make sure
our rotations are all zeroes.
So to do that we want to select the object in Object mode and press control a.
And that will bring up the Apply menu.
Now we want to apply the rotation.
We can also apply the location and the scale and we can also apply the rotation and the scale at the
same time.
So notice the scale over here is point 4 6 and the rotation is 90 degrees.
If we press control a and choose rotation and scale that will put the rotation at zero and the scale
all at once.
So now if we come back to the modifiers panel click add modifier mirror.
Now it mirrors along the x axis in the way that we'd want it to here and now if I hit apply that will
make it all one object.
And there they are.
There are legs.
So I'll tap back and object there.
All right.
In the next video let's take a look at creating an arm and mirroring it over to the other side as well.